Bias in news reporting is becoming more recognizable, and many individuals have a desire to explore multiple sides of an issue before forming their own opinion. The goal
of our senior design project is to create a browser extension that analyzes the text of an article and gives a political bias score on a left-right scale, so that users
can search out neutral sources of news or at least read both left- and right-biased news. We will train an AI model on existing news articles to detect political bias.
Users will be able to use the browser extension on any webpage to generate a left-right bias score. We hope that this tool will provide more transparency about information
online and allow users to explore multiple perspectives.

The courses I have taken at the University of Cincinnati have provided me with relevant experience for the development of this project. Particularly useful experience for
this project are EECE-5136, Intelligent Systems, and CS-5173, Deep Learning. In Intelligent Systems, I learned how to build and train various types of neural networks from
scratch. This has given me a better understanding of how machine learning works behind the scenes, which will help me when I build a training dataset for detecting bias.
In Deep Learning, I learned how to use state-of-the-art tools for deep learning in various use cases. This will help me work with a team to develop a supervised learning
model to detect bias.

My co-op work has also provided me with relevant experience. In particular, my web development work with Siemens and my embedded development work with Mercedes-Benz will
be helpful for this project. At Siemens, I worked extensively with both front-end and back-end development. This experience will apply to developing a browser extension,
because I now have a stronger understanding of how websites work. At Mercedes, I spent a lot of time troubleshooting difficult problems and improving code performance.
This has prepared me to help my team debug code when unexpected problems arise and improve any performance issues.

I am excited to work on this project because of the increasing relevance of AI technology and the real challenge bias in news reporting provides. I was in high school when
the 2016 election polarized the political discourse in both media and social settings. Ever since then, I have had a heightened awareness of the negative effects of bias
in online media. That’s why I’m looking forward to creating a software solution that will help people become more aware of the biases in the media they read. If people
begin to read news sources with varying opinions, they will have an easier time developing an opinion of their own. And any tool that allows citizens to more actively
participate in their political system provides immeasurable social value.

My preliminary approach to such a project would be to develop a supervised learning model. We would collect contemporary news articles from a variety of sources, some with
a stronger left bias, some with a stronger right bias, and some with minimal bias. We would give each individual article a numerical left-right bias score, -1 being strong
left bias and 1 being strong right bias. We would train the model until we achieve the expected result of reliable scores on articles the model has never seen. With a
functional model in place, we would build a front-end browser extension to extract the article heading and body text and send them to our model for scoring. We would hope
that our model can reliably score articles from a variety of sources and that the browser extension would be easy to use.
